src/content/blog/post-whered-the-missing-districts-go.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Where did the missing districts go?'
pubDate: 2025-03-12
description: 'A Historical dive into the naming for the districts of the CFA.'
author: 'dynamitegus'
tags: ["CFA", "History", "Names"]

---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import cfadistrictmap from '/src/images/CFA_Districts_as_a_map.png'
import cfadistrictmap2 from '/src/images/statewide_locations.jpg'
import cfa02032000page from '/src/images/Beautiful_CFA_page.png'
import cfamainpage2000 from '/src/images/The_CFA_main_page.png'

So Im sitting in a maths lecture a bit bored as I was finding the topics covered a little to easy and my mind goes back to [a page](https://www.cfa.vic.gov.au/contact) I saw when I was applying to be a volunteer at the Country Fire Authority in Victoria.

While looking at the "Find Your Nearest CFA Brigade" map, the map above it caught my eye.
<Image alt="A map of Victoria with regions marked with CFA district names" src={cfadistrictmap} class="rounded-xl m-4" />
While having a look at the map(i wanted to see if the few CFA brigades outside victoria were on there) I realised that a few districts just straight up didnt exist, namely District 01. Just quickly, here are the districts that exist in order.


- District 02 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 04 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 05 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 06 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 07 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 08 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 09 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 10 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 11 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 12 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 13 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 14 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 15 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 16 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 17 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 18 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 20 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 22 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 23 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 24 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 27 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>

So, upon making this list i realise that there are less missing than I thought, but there are still some missing, namely:

- District 01
- District 03
- District 19
- District 21
- District 25
- District 26

## Hypothesis
Before I actually get to looking, if we have a look at the map we can see that most of the Districts numbered 20 and above appear to have been split off from surronding districts, in my opinion the most obvious example of this is District 27. I have a feeling that this happened with 23, 24 and 25.
## And so begins the lookening
I started by looking at older verisons of the cfa website and i found that the oldest version of this page is from 2012, which is far back enough to prove parts of my theory correct. [This page](https://web.archive.org/web/20121127203225/http://www.cfa.vic.gov.au/contact/) also has a map of the districts and here it is:
<Image alt="A different map of Victoria with regions marked with CFA district names" src={cfadistrictmap2} class="rounded-xl m-4"/>
As you can see in this image my theory was correct, it appears that District 27 was split off from District 10, but this doesnt actually explain the weird numbering scheme, so my next idea was to go to the CFA home page and then find an older district map, The Internet Archive has archived versions of the page from 1998 but they are totally broken, odd but yk its fine probably, I mean who would be digging through old versions of their website...

anyway...

<Image alt="a very 2000s webpage" src={cfa02032000page} class="rounded-xl m-4" />
Look at this amazing webpage, I could show the non broken version but i think this is too funny, anyway pressing on the "Enter" button takes us to the actual page:
<Image alt="a 2000s looking homepage" src={cfamainpage2000} class="rounded-xl m-4"/>
Looking through the working links here I found a very interesting PDF that was the 1999-2000 annual report, but unfortunatly it wasnt helpful.

Commit message:

Finish blog post and edit rss.xml

src/content/blog/post-whered-the-missing-districts-go.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Where did the missing districts go?'
pubDate: 2025-03-14
modDate: 2025-03-14
description: 'A Historical dive into the naming for the districts of the CFA.'
author: 'dynamitegus'
tags: ["CFA", "History", "Names"]

---
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';
import cfadistrictmap from '/src/images/CFA_Districts_as_a_map.png'
import cfadistrictmap2 from '/src/images/statewide_locations.jpg'
import cfa02032000page from '/src/images/Beautiful_CFA_page.png'
import cfamainpage2000 from '/src/images/The_CFA_main_page.png'

So Im sitting in a maths lecture a bit bored as I was finding the topics covered a little to easy and my mind goes back to [a page](https://www.cfa.vic.gov.au/contact) I saw when I was applying to be a volunteer at the Country Fire Authority in Victoria.

While looking at the "Find Your Nearest CFA Brigade" map, the map above it caught my eye.
<Image alt="A map of Victoria with regions marked with CFA district names" src={cfadistrictmap} class="rounded-xl m-4" />
While having a look at the map(i wanted to see if the few CFA brigades outside victoria were on there) I realised that a few districts just straight up didnt exist, namely District 01. Just quickly, here are the districts that exist in order.


- District 02 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 04 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 05 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 06 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 07 in the <span class="text-mauve">South West  region</span>
- District 08 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 09 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 10 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 11 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>
- District 12 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 13 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 14 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 15 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 16 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 17 in the <span class="text-sky">West          region</span>
- District 18 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 20 in the <span class="text-yellow">North West region</span>
- District 22 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 23 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 24 in the <span class="text-red">North East    region</span>
- District 27 in the <span class="text-peach">South East  region</span>

So, upon making this list i realise that there are less missing than I thought, but there are still some missing, namely:

- District 01
- District 03
- District 19
- District 21
- District 25
- District 26

## Hypothesis
Before I actually get to looking, if we have a look at the map we can see that most of the Districts numbered 20 and above appear to have been split off from surronding districts, in my opinion the most obvious example of this is District 27. I have a feeling that this happened with 23, 24 and 25.
## And so begins the lookening
I started by looking at older verisons of the cfa website and i found that the oldest version of this page is from 2012, which is far back enough to prove parts of my theory correct. [This page](https://web.archive.org/web/20121127203225/http://www.cfa.vic.gov.au/contact/) also has a map of the districts and here it is:
<Image alt="A different map of Victoria with regions marked with CFA district names" src={cfadistrictmap2} class="rounded-xl m-4"/>
As you can see in this image my theory was correct, it appears that District 27 was split off from District 10, but this doesnt actually explain the weird numbering scheme, so my next idea was to go to the CFA home page and then find an older district map, The Internet Archive has archived versions of the page from 1998 but they are totally broken, odd but yk its fine probably, I mean who would be digging through old versions of their website...

anyway...

<Image alt="a very 2000s webpage" src={cfa02032000page} class="rounded-xl m-4" />
Look at this amazing webpage, I could show the non broken version but i think this is too funny, anyway pressing on the "Enter" button takes us to the actual page:
<Image alt="a 2000s looking homepage" src={cfamainpage2000} class="rounded-xl m-4"/>
Looking through the working links here I found a very interesting PDF that was the 1999-2000 annual report, but unfortunatly it wasnt helpful. Edit from me from like two days later, turns out this PDF is on the cfa website.

Deciding that the old page was a lost cause I turn to google, I found a fex interesting results,
- [This page](https://news.cfa.vic.gov.au/news/groups-a-long-and-winding-road) is a Article written by Christopher Simmins in 2016 about the history of Newstead CFA, and its move from District 15 to District 02, amoung other things. in truth as of writing ive only skimmed the article for mentions of District 01.
- [This Facebook post](https://www.facebook.com/groups/forestcommisionheritage/posts/7031714223521534/) Written by Peter McHugh says: "The Board then divided Victoria into 24 Regions and appointed 17 Regional Officers, but the organisation had very rocky first beginnings." Again as of writing mostly skimmed, but from my understanding its explaining alot of stuff i already know with some added new info.

## Did District 01 ever exist?

So far i have only found information that illudes to this mysterious district, but nowhere has explicitly said "District 01 was merged with X district"

Well, that was until i went to the second page of google...

Once i explicitly searched "What happened to district 1" ans was scrolling the second page, I found out about the CFA Roll of Honour.

I need to properly discuss how i should quote this but i work with what i think i should do, so i wont link directly or discuss the spcific entries i found.
But there were a few entries that included "district 1 (15)" or "district 3 (7)"

So we have proof that they did exist, atleast they did before the 80's.

# NOTE: figure out how to make astro properly format my newlines

## So we have proof they did exist. Where to now?
I'm not too sure where i should go from here. there are numerous paths i could take:
- explore the [Victorian Pulic Archives](https://prov.vic.gov.au/)
- make a [Freedom of Information Request](https://www.cfa.vic.gov.au/about-us/your-cfa/governance-and-regulations/freedom-of-information) but I think i would need to know more information like when and how it happened to do that.
- ask a older member of the CFA that wouldve been around at the time. But this could be harder as i am nowhere where i think these districts were.
- maybe i could make a post on the [Victoria's Forests and Bushfire Heritage](https://www.facebook.com/groups/forestcommisionheritage)
- i could also ask the cfa directly without a FoI Request.

As of the 14 of March 2025, thats where i will end my search. Either i will make a new post when i find more or update this post.
